one of the most difficult parts of
public speaking is handling questions
that may come from your audience after
you've delivered a presentation in this
video I'm going to give you a few
specific strategies of how you can
become more confident when these
questions come your way and how you will
be able to tackle even the most
difficult questions with ease hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson one
of my great passions in life is
communication public speaking I've
dedicated my YouTube channel to help
make you a better Communicator a more
impactful speaker whether that's through
the Toastmasters program or whether
that's completely separate maybe you're
not a member of Toastmasters you simply
want to be a stronger speaker you have
come to the right place before I launch
into this video I would ask of you
please subscribe to my channel every
subscription it really helps me to focus
more and more time and energy to produce
great content to help you along this
journey that I'm on as well of trying to
be the best public speaker possible so
why is it so difficult to handle a
question from the audience well first
off you can't prepare for it when it
comes to a speech you can practice
practice practice multiple times and you
can really have it dialed in what you're
going to say through every part of your
speech but then at the end if there is
time for questions that is something
that unfortunately you don't know what
the audience is going to ask you and
this is something that even some of the
most professional public speakers are
challenged with I recently had a
conversation with somebody who has
become a friend of mine and he is a
professional speaker he is one of the
greatest public speakers in Canada and
he focuses on Innovation and disruption
and when we were talking he explained to
me that questions from the audience are
something that he has struggled with
throughout his entire speaking career
and that he's actively working hard to
get better at and be able to handle
those because he's got the speech part
dialed in he's a great speaker but he
wants to hone his craft and ensure that
he can answer these questions when I had
the chance to ask him what is your
number one tip to somebody who is maybe
more of an amateur speaker who is
getting these types of questions he said
the thing that has worked best for him
is pausing
pausing after the question is asked
for some reason when we are on stage or
when we are in front of a group of
people everything is sped up we want to
answer quickly we tend to speak quicker
and our brain is erasing and we're
uncomfortable with a little bit of
Silence that's the Natural Way many of
us struggle to allow a pause of Silence
to happen but what this particular
individual who as I mentioned is a great
public speaker what he's come to learn
and force himself to do is to Simply
take a step back and pause the question
will come his way
and he'll allow himself some time to
think about what is actually being asked
he won't rush to fill in the silence and
give an answer because often when you do
that
a few minutes later your brain's
thinking oh I could have given a better
answer and he understands that so he
takes a step back he allows the question
to be absorbed in his brain he thinks
about it maybe even up to five seconds
of a pause and then he delivers an
answer and the audience doesn't find
that odd in fact they appreciate the
fact that he's truthfully thinking about
what the question is and delivering a
meaningful answer so that is a first
great strategy is to pause and allow the
question to sink in a second piece of
advice that kind of ties into the first
that I just mentioned is to repeat the
question this is important to ensure
that you have that Clarity or that level
of understanding with the audience
member who has asked the question
because sometimes especially if there's
not a microphone being passed around if
it's a big room we may not hear what the
question was accurately
and so it's a good idea to ask the
question or repeat the question to see
that the audience member is nodding and
agrees that that is indeed what he or
she asked of you but the side benefit to
doing this is that it gives you that
extra little bit of time to think
every second matters when it comes to
thinking up an answer on the spot and by
repeating the question and having that
verbal acknowledgment that that is
indeed what was asked you're allowing
your brain a couple more seconds to
really think of the question and
formulate an answer and then deliver it
the third tip I have is to practice but
wait a second Wade didn't you say you
can't really practice for a question
that is randomly going to be asked of an
audience member you may or may not have
ever met in the past technically yes but
you can still practice the spontaneity
of answering random questions that are
asked one way to do this is to deliver
your speech or presentation in front of
a friend or family member and task them
with asking you three to five questions
after you've done the speech as that
individual is listening they'll be run
writing down potential questions then at
the end of the presentation you'll know
that they were paying attention by the
questions that they ask but those
questions will actually challenge you
because you don't know what they're
going to be from your friend or family
member just like you won't know what
they're going to be from the audience
member on the day of but the more you
can practice answering random questions
it will make you more comfortable on
your feet and one thing you may notice
is that if one person has a question
it's highly likely other people have the
same question so what will happen more
often than not is one of the questions
from the family member or the friend
will actually be a question that you
were asked on the day of and a bonus to
this is that it may show you areas of
your speech where you need to be a
little bit more clear because if you're
getting the same question regularly
obviously there may be some form of Gap
in how you're explaining the information
so that will help you to tighten up your
presentation and make your overall
speech more powerful in the future okay
so what happens if you get a question
that you don't know the answer to and
you feel silly because here you are
talking about a topic that you're
supposed to be an expert on and the
audience member has asked you something
and you are stumped let's use a specific
example to really dial into this pretend
I'm giving a speech about social media
and the various social media networks
that are out there and then an audience
member asks me a question about the new
social media platform called be real
and wow I have heard of be real but I
don't have an account I've never posted
anything on be real and I don't really
know a lot of information about this new
platform and yet the audience member
wants an answer what do you do in that
situation I think it's so incredibly
important to be honest be honest with
your audience if you don't have
familiarity with that particular
platform or whatever the question is
that you are asked of be upfront with
them but if there's an opportunity you
can always promise them that you will
dive deep into what that answer is and
follow up after the speech maybe you
exchange business cards or you have a
conversation and and you promise that
individual you know what I'm going to
find out the answer because that is a
great question alternatively you can
give a partial answer while still being
honest so keeping on the example of be
real maybe I'm not familiar with with
that particular platform and I don't
have an account but I do know that it's
monthly active users are exponentially
increasing I can say to this audience
member while I haven't personally
experimented with be real I know that
the monthly active users the data is
showing us more and more people are
using that platform so I know for myself
personally it needs to be on my radar
and I think it's a great point that
you've brought up and I think you should
definitely check it out and experiment
on that platform it was an honest answer
even though I don't have the personal
experience I still gave them the
information that I know and hopefully it
will be beneficial to that audience
member a final bonus tip of how to be
strategic with questions that are asked
of you when delivering a presentation is
ensure your timing is right if you're
giving an hour presentation but you fall
way short on the speech and you only
speak for 40 minutes because maybe
you're talking came faster than you
anticipated now you have 20 minutes of
audience questions potentially make sure
that your speech is filling most of the
time and if you only have five minutes
or so for questions that's still an
acceptable amount a regular amount for
the audience to ask you a question but
now you don't have to worry about the
majority of your time on stage being at
being spent answering questions that you
can't practice for I hope this video on
how to answer difficult questions from
audience members has been beneficial to
you as I mentioned earlier it is one of
the most challenging aspects of public
speaking those questions that you can't
do too much preparation for but I hope
the strategies outline in this video
help you out and that you knock it out
of the park when it comes to the next
questions you're asked in your speech if
you've watched the video this long
please subscribe to my channel I'm going
to put out much more great content to
help make you a more impactful
Communicator I'll catch you on the next
video thank you so much for watching
this video if you are looking for a
little bit of coaching help with your
next speech I am providing one-on-one
evaluations my contact email is in the
video description reach out to me and
let's discuss what that could look like